----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 53
TITLE: Structural Parse Tree Features for Text Representation
AUTHORS: Sean Massung and Chengxiang Zhai and Julia Hockenmaier


----------- REVIEW -----------
In this paper the authors propose a new text-feature for the purpose of text
representation. The introduced feature is based on parse tree feature. The main
idea is to remove the syntactic labels from the parse tree and use the
structure of the tree as a new feature. Beside this feature, which is called
skeleton, a new one is also proposed, namely annotated skeleton, the only
difference of which is that the syntactic label of the root is kept. By
focusing on the structure of the text, this feature is able to provide a more
generalized representation of the text.

The paper is well written and organized. The experiments are presented properly
and provide a faire explanation of the advantages of the introduced feature,
which offers a different way to capture different aspects of the text.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 53
TITLE: Structural Parse Tree Features for Text Representation
AUTHORS: Sean Massung and Chengxiang Zhai and Julia Hockenmaier


----------- REVIEW -----------
This paper devises some interesting new text features based on parse trees for
nationality detection, essay scoring, and sentiment analysis. The paper is well
written and the experiments are convincing. Not every environment is shown to
respond to the new features, and when they do, there is mostly
epsilon-improvement. The authors don't discuss dimensional reduction techniques
at all, a distinct weakness in their approach.


----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
PAPER: 53
TITLE: Structural Parse Tree Features for Text Representation
AUTHORS: Sean Massung and Chengxiang Zhai and Julia Hockenmaier


----------- REVIEW -----------
This paper propose to use structural parse tree features for text
representation. Evaluation based on three different text categorization tasks
including nationality detection, essay scoring and sentiment analysis, were
conducted to show the effectiveness of this new feature.

Overall, the paper is well written with a clear explanation of the new feature.
The only thing that feel is missing is the explanation of those acronyms for
the figure above Section III (A) (e.g. S, NP, VP, etc.).

The experiments are also well conducted.


----------------------- REVIEW 4 ---------------------
PAPER: 53
TITLE: Structural Parse Tree Features for Text Representation
AUTHORS: Sean Massung and Chengxiang Zhai and Julia Hockenmaier


----------- REVIEW -----------
This paper focuses on an augmented representation of textual documents that is
derived from the parse structure of sentences but without actually considering
the constituents or the internal nodes of the production grammar. The results
of using this augmented representation show minor improvements in two of the
three tasks.

While this representation is commented as orthogonal, it is instead
complementary. Furthermore, I found several other issues which needs to be
clarified.

1. The basic assumption here is that a sentence parse skeleton is a generic
template which is populated with words at the leaf level and grammar production
rules at intermediate levels. While this may provide a complementary view of
the document and *may* provide for slightly better classification accuracy, I
fail to see a critical analysis of the class conditional variance of the
skeletal features. For all we know, these variances can be very similar for the
different classes and contribute little to explaining the observed target at
the sample points --- actually Fig. 1 supports this critique. This paper can be
improved to a great extent if an analysis can be done on the identification of
the improvement to the VC dimension given an augmented hypothesis space
consisting of functions that depend on a base hypotheses class e.g. what impact
does h*({skeleton = f(word,POS sequence), word,POS sequence}) have on the
VC-dim of a linear SVM instead of just h({word,POS sequence})? Does it lower
the VC dimension?

2. The accuracies in Fig. 1 and the gains in Fig. 2 lack any significance
testing. Without any statistical significance testing no conclusions about the
efficacy of the new features can be drawn. One also has to do a comparison with
L1 regularized classification to see whether the new features are at all
considered significant w.r.t minimizing a loss function. I don't understand
Fig. 3 -- the skeletons or the annotated skeletons point to what kinds of
surface realizations i.e. sentences? A skel of () is indicative of proper
punctuation style as segmented by a parser that might be completely disregarded
by Chinese writers. It is very difficult to draw any qualitative conclusions
about writing styles based on this table. The task of sentiment analysis using
this scheme is not appropriate.

3. The observation that native speakers use more obscure rewrite rules (Section
4 A) is not right. What is observed is the output of an automatic probabilistic
parser which has been trained on a corpus different from the one used here. No
conclusion can be drawn about writing styles without ground truth annotation.

As such this paper is not ready for publication and needs many more revisions.
Considering character n-grams with punctuations can be useful for nationality
detection as well as authorship attribution task.
